README.md, before:

# My Flask Webpage
python Flask web app running on docker

## Setup virtual environment
```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Note: On Windows the activate path is different:
```bash
.\.venv\Scripts\activate

# To deactivate
.\.venv\Scripts\deactivate
```

To upgrade pip:
```bash
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
```

PDM is used for package management. 
```bash
pdm install
```

Note: On windows uwsgi cannot be installed because it is a unix only package. You need to skip the installation process.


# Deployment

## Development Environment

Set the `FLASK_APP` environment variable.
```bash
export FLASK_APP=src/my_flask_webpage/__init__.py
```

On windows in windows powershell:
```bash
$env:FLASK_APP = "src/my_flask_webpage/__init__.py"
```

## Production Environment

### Build the Docker Image
```bash
docker build -t my_flask_webpage .
```

Note: Obtain requirements from pdm package manager.
```bash
pdm export -f requirements --without-hashes > requirements.txt
```


A note to windows users: You need C++ build tools to build the image. You can download it from [here](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/visual-cpp-build-tools/).
These are necessary for the `uwsgi` package. After installing the build tools, you need to run the following command:
```bash
"C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2022\BuildTools\VC\Auxiliary\Build\vcvars64.bat"
```

### Run the Docker Container
```bash
docker run -d -p 3031:3031 my_flask_webpage
```

For local testing change in `uwsgi.ini`, `socket` to `http`. Then it does not use a socket but a http connection for
communication. This is useful for local testing. In production, the socket should be used together with a web server like
nginx, which functions as a reverse proxy.

Connection Diagram:

Browser → Nginx (HTTPS, HTTP) → uWSGI (via socket)


### Initialize the Database

On Windows:

```bash
docker exec -it <container_id> bash
python -m 'app.setup.init_db'
```

On Linux:

```bash
docker exec -it <container_id> bash
python -m app.setup.init_db
```

Commit message:

start with multi container env

README.md, after:

# My Flask Webpage
python Flask web app running on docker

## Setup virtual environment
```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Note: On Windows the activate path is different:
```bash
.\.venv\Scripts\activate

# To deactivate
.\.venv\Scripts\deactivate
```

To upgrade pip:
```bash
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
```

PDM is used for package management. 
```bash
pdm install
```

Note: On windows uwsgi cannot be installed because it is a unix only package. You need to skip the installation process.


# Deployment

## Development Environment

Set the `FLASK_APP` environment variable.
```bash
export FLASK_APP=src/my_flask_webpage/__init__.py
```

On windows in windows powershell:
```bash
$env:FLASK_APP = "src/my_flask_webpage/__init__.py"
```

## Build Docker Compose Configuration
### Using nginx-proxy reverse proxy

Connect uWSGI Upstream
If you would like to connect to uWSGI backend, set VIRTUAL_PROTO=uwsgi on the backend container. 
Your backend container should then listen on a port rather than a socket and expose that port
[Source](https://github.com/nginx-proxy/nginx-proxy/tree/main/docs#virtual-hosts-and-ports).

## Production Environment

### Build the Docker Image
```bash
docker build -t my_flask_webpage .
```

Note: Obtain requirements from pdm package manager.
```bash
pdm export -f requirements --without-hashes > requirements.txt
```


A note to windows users: You need C++ build tools to build the image. You can download it from [here](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/visual-cpp-build-tools/).
These are necessary for the `uwsgi` package. After installing the build tools, you need to run the following command:
```bash
"C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2022\BuildTools\VC\Auxiliary\Build\vcvars64.bat"
```

### Run the Docker Container
```bash
docker run -d -p 3031:3031 my_flask_webpage
```

For local testing change in `uwsgi.ini`, `socket` to `http`. Then it does not use a socket but a http connection for
communication. This is useful for local testing. In production, the socket should be used together with a web server like
nginx, which functions as a reverse proxy.

Connection Diagram:

Browser → Nginx (HTTPS, HTTP) → uWSGI (via socket)


### Initialize the Database

On Windows:

```bash
docker exec -it <container_id> bash
python -m 'app.setup.init_db'
```

On Linux:

```bash
docker exec -it <container_id> bash
python -m app.setup.init_db
```
